hello everyone and welcome back today
I'm gonna talk to you about the
difference between sequel and no sequel
databases I'm going to start out by
defining what sequel and no sequel is
followed by some general guidelines on
how to pick one over the other when
starting a new project so let's start
out by defining what sequel is so sequel
stands for structured query language and
the language typically looks like what
we have on the right here so SQL allows
you to perform some create read update
or delete also known as crud operations
through a universal language that is
pretty much consistent across multiple
different underline relational database
engines so as I said there's multiple
different underlying relational database
engines and these typically are things
like my sequel Postgres or Microsoft
sequel server so there's four key
components that I like to talk about
about databases so there's structure
storage scale and access so let's
quickly go through these and talk about
how it relates to sequel so starting the
top left with structure you typically
interact with tables in a relational
database engine so as an example we have
a accounts table here and a table
consists of rows and columns the columns
correspond to the types and the rows
correspond to the individual entities
that exist in the table so we have an
account ID here we have a creation ID
and a country ID and every row here is
an entity or an element so a1 is the
account ID at a creation date of
September 30th and it's contrary is
number one now in a sequel table you
must have a primary key and a primary
key corresponds to the unique identifier
that identifies a specific row so in
this Rose case the primary key is a 1
you have attributes that correspond to
just general data about the record and
then you can also have things called
foreign keys which are links to other
tables now sequel databases also enforce
constraints so for instance down here
we're seeing that the account ID column
is only allowed to be a variable
character or a string similarly the
creation date is only allowed to be a
date and the country ID is only allowed
to be an integer these constraints make
it such that if a user's trying to
insert or update
and the data violates the constraint
that's imposed on the table the
operation will fail so this is a great
way to enforce consistency across the
content of your tables thirdly possibly
the most important is that we have
relations and let's just bring up a
second image here that has a
relationship so in this table we have
the accounts which was what we
originally had previously and we saw
that we had a country ID with this vague
name here so country ID 1 and separately
over here we also have a country table
that exists on its own and in there are
the identifiers x' for each of these
country IDs so country ID one
corresponds to USA two for Canada three
frost area so on and so forth so what
sequel databases allow us to do is build
relationships so we can say country ID 1
corresponds to USA 2 to Canada and 3 to
Australia what this allows us to do is
perform some very flexible queries such
as give me all the accounts where the
country ID is equal to USA now in terms
of storage the storage pattern is
concentrated so in a relational database
engine there's typically one node that
contains an entire copy of your data
it's typically not partitioned or
segregated in any way unless you're
using some advanced strategies now down
to the bottom left in terms of scale
there's two approaches here so the first
one is vertical so if you have a machine
that's hosting your database engine and
you're suffering in the performance area
the option here is to build a better
machine so have more memory get a better
CPU at a faster hard-disk these are ways
to vertically scale your machine so that
you can get better performance keep in
mind here that there is a physical
limitation in terms of how powerful a
machine that you can make so there is an
upper ceiling on vertical scaling the
second approach is horizontal which just
means adding more machines and when you
add more machines in a horizontally
skilled RDS environment you typically
perform that by distributing your data
across multiple nodes so in a
horizontally scaled environment you have
one master and then you have multiple
read replicas so when traffic is coming
in not only can that traffic read off of
your master but can also read off of
your read replicas so what this allows
you to do is to offload some of the
pressure from the initial master node on
to read replicas so that you can ensure
optimal performance on your database now
in terms of access it's typically raw
sequel so writing the raw create read
update and delete syntax for your query
you typically require a direct database
connection to the endpoint of the
database and typically these days people
are using object relational mapper z--
to construct their queries and what
these basically are are abstractions
that people use to add criteria to an
object in a very programmatic way and
then allow that to generate a sequel
statement that can be run against the
engine so we've basically covered the
four key pillars of sequel here let's
move on to talking about what is no
sequel so although it probably doesn't
need to be said it's anything that is
non relational and there's many
different implementations of no sequel
so it's kind of an overloaded term
there's implementations that use table
structures similar to what we saw in the
sequel approach some use document and
some use graph and the basic idea here
is that no sequel is built the scale
with high performance but it also comes
at a cost and that cost is that your
queries are less flexible so let's go
through the same exercise as we did
before and talk about the structure
storage scale and access so in terms of
structure it is very implementation
dependent so as I said there's table
implementations
there's document implementations that
store JSON objects under the hood and
there's also graph databases so say for
instance something like a Facebook
social network where you have friends
and those friends also have friends a
graph database is a perfect
representation of that domain but the
general theme among all these is that
they rely on key value stores so
generally in a no sequel database you
need to know the key that you're looking
for when you are performing your query
in terms of storage it relies on hashing
the input so if you have a key that
you're looking for that key is given
into a hashing function and the result
of that hashing function is a value and
that value is distributed on to one of
multiple nodes so say for instance if we
add key one to three the key 1 to 3
would be inserted into the hashing
function the output would be a physical
location on partition 1 where that data
row is stored and if you think about
what this looks like from the read
perspective now the same kind of concept
applies so the same hashing
is run when the key is provided and the
engine knows exactly which partition to
find the record on in terms of scale
it's a very simple process and that is
to simply add more partitions so instead
of having the two partitions like we had
in the top right in this example we can
just add four partitions and allow those
individual partitions to scale
individually so add more disk storage
add more memory and more CPU typically
in an O sequel database engine all of
this is managed for you so you don't
have to worry about the underlying
details on how to add more partitions
now moving on to access there's two
major flavors here the first one is REST
API Zen you use REST API is to hit a
specific endpoint that has a certain
functionality associated with it
optionally you can perform create read
update or delete in vendor specific
languages so if you use Ino vendor like
dynamo DB that will a very different way
to perform a query as something like
MongoDB which isn't another no sequel
option so now that we know a little bit
about sequel and no sequel let's move on
to talking about when you should use
what so here we have a sequel and no
sequel table so let's firstly go through
why you would want to use sequel so when
your access patterns aren't defined if
you don't know how your business use
case is going to evolve and you're not
sure if the way you're storing your data
is going to allow you to query it in an
effective way later then using sequel is
definitely the preferred option secondly
when you want to perform flexible
queries this kind of ties into the first
point if your access patterns aren't
defined you won't know what queries
you're going to perform so it's
important to stay flexible so you can
adapt to changing use cases third when
you want to perform relational queries
so this really is the bread and butter
of sequel engines if your domain is by
definition relational and you want to
perform queries that can make multiple
hops among different tables then sequel
is the choice for you fourth if you want
to enforce field constraints this allows
you to normalize and keep your table
consistent so that malformed data cannot
make its way into your table and lastly
for sequel when you want to use a
well-documented access language sequel
is generally universal across all the
relational database engines that are
underlined so you can find a ton of
support and there's a ton of different
communities that you can learn from to
help you solve your
now moving on to why you would want to
use no sequel so when your access
pattern is defined so when you know
exactly how you're going to be
interacting with your database it's
definitely a time to consider no sequel
secondly when your primary key is known
this is part of the limitations of no
sequel as we were talking about before
the input to the hashing function is
your primary key so if you don't know
your primary key you're not necessarily
going to be able to find the data that
you're looking for and thirdly when your
data model fits as I was alluding to
before in a Facebook type domain where
you have friends and they have friends
that's a very natural fit for a no
sequel graph based database so no sequel
may be a choice for you and finally the
most important one when you need high
performance and low latency this is
where no sequel shines it can scale out
horizontally pretty much infinitely
while maintaining a consistent high
performance and low latency so now that
we've done a little bit of a comparison
here let's walk through some example
scenarios of when you would pick one or
the other
so how to pick so if you have a small
project that's low scale with an unknown
access patterns you're better off using
sequel so if you're just starting out
and you're not really sure if your
product is going to take off and you
don't necessarily know how it's going to
be used sequel definitely makes sense
and it's probably the best choice for
you and secondly maybe you have a large
project that is high scale that requires
relational queries I'd highly suggest
using sequel however using a managed
solution with read replicas so you can
ensure a high performance and
consistency for all your customers now
the main option here since this is an
AWS Channel is to use Amazon Arora which
is a fully managed sequel database they
also have an alternative option called
Amazon RDS that allows you to use a
different underlying relational database
engine such as my sequel Postgres Oracle
and others and still gives you that
managed functionality and allows you to
have read replicas monitoring and
everything else that goes along with a
managed database engine and if you have
a medium or a large project that is high
scale and requires high performance then
no sequel is definitely the choice for
you so there's typically two engines in
the AWS ecosystem there's DynamoDB which
is by far the most popular and most
developed and there's also a
DB and MongoDB as a canonical name
document DB in the AWS world so if
you're looking for on AWS document
DB is the choice for you unfortunately I
can't recommend no sequel for small
projects I think no sequel is a better
fit for those that have an established
use case that require ultra-fast
performance and high scaling abilities
so if you like this video I have a great
dynamo to be playlist that you should
check out also please don't forget to
Like and subscribe so you don't miss out
on next week's video thanks so much
folks and I'll see you next time